Hi friends
In this video we are going to learn
the escape sequence in C.
Now let's say we want to print hello world like this hello and world one after
the other in two different lines. So how will we
print it ? So I am writing 2 printf functions for
hello and world separately in two lines instead of one
printf function and I am going to execute it
and still result will be like this Hello world together
So what I can do here is that I can
use an escape sequence and and I am re-writing the function
using \n and I am printing Hello \n world
Now the result will be like this exactly as
we wanted it
So how did it happen? And what is this escape
sequence? Why \ and n were not considered as two
different characters?
It is because there are some such kind of character
sequences which have an indirect meaning when placed inside double quotes
And this \n is one such escapes sequence
which works as a new line character
Now let us see another case where I want to
print Happy New Year with the horizontal tab space between
these three words. Then I can manually give a tab
space while writing the printf statement
But there is a much easier way
There is this escape sequence \t which will do the job
for us. So I can write like this which is
easier and provides the same result
Now these are some useful escape sequences and first
we have \n to go to a new line
and we have \t to print horizontal tab space
And we have \' to print a single
quote and \" to print a double quote
And if you want to print a backslash then you
can use the escape sequence \\ and you can
try these and let us know your thoughts
So that's all and watching this video